The study of the clustering problem precedes its applicability to thetext domain. Traditional methods for clustering have generally focussedon the case of quantitative data [44, 71, 50, 54, 108], in which the attributesof the data are numeric. The problem has also been studiedfor the case of categorical data [10, 41, 43], in which the attributes maytake on nominal values. A broad overview of clustering (as it relatesto generic numerical and categorical data) may be found in [50, 54]. Anumber of implementations of common text clustering algorithms, as appliedto text data, may be found in several toolkits such as Lemur [114]and BOW toolkit in [64]. The problem of clustering finds applicabilityfor a number of tasks:Document Organization and Browsing: The hierarchical organizationof documents into coherent categories can be very usefulfor systematic browsing of the document collection. A classical exampleof this is the Scatter/Gather method [25], which provides asystematic browsing technique with the use of clustered organizationof the document collection.Corpus Summarization: Clustering techniques provide a coherentsummary of the collection in the form of cluster-digests [83] orword-clusters [17, 18], which can be used in order to provide summaryinsights into the overall content of the underlying corpus.Variants of such methods, especially sentence clustering, can alsobe used for document summarization, a topic, discussed in detailin Chapter 3. The problem of clustering is also closely related tothat of dimensionality reduction and topic modeling. Such dimensionalityreduction methods are all different ways of summarizinga corpus of documents, and are covered in Chapter 5.Document Classification: While clustering is inherently an unsupervisedlearning method, it can be leveraged in order to improvethe quality of the results in its supervised variant. In particular,word-clusters [17, 18] and co-training methods [72] can be used inorder to improve the classification accuracy of supervised applicationswith the use of clustering techniques.We note that many classes of algorithms such as the k-means algorithm,or hierarchical algorithms are general-purpose methods, whichA Survey of Text Clustering Algorithms 79can be extended to any kind of data, including text data. A text documentcan be represented either in the form of binary data, when we usethe presence or absence of a word in the document in order to create abinary vector. In such cases, it is possible to directly use a variety ofcategorical data clustering algorithms [10, 41, 43] on the binary representation.A more enhanced representation would include refined weightingmethods based on the frequencies of the individual words in the documentas well as frequencies of words in an entire collection (e.g., TF-IDFweighting [82]). Quantitative data clustering algorithms [44, 71, 108] canbe used in conjunction with these frequencies in order to determine themost relevant groups of objects in the data.